David,


I am a dedicated student of your Harvard CS50 class, online through EdX….Your course is in the process of shaping my future and changing my life …and I am very appreciative of the opportunities afforded by the program….

Unfortunately, I’ve suddenly run into a large frustration with the (lack of) feedback I have received through the submission process….

I discovered CS50 back in October or November while searching for ways to educate myself in computer science …an ambitious career adjustment after seventeen years as a television producer….I have been supplementing 

your CS50 content with a multitude of other learning resources over the past year…including Khan Academy, Treehouse, Code School, CIW courses and Programming in C.

….but i digress….

…the issue at hand is pset4 and Recover…I initially completed the program to recover the 50 jpegs from the corrupted file sometime ago ….December…maybe early January….

as per usual, another well designed assignment for developing programming skills ….and at that time, I regarded accomplishing the task among my greatest accomplishments in computer programming…..however, the CS50 submissions process

was on hiatus at the time…

Subsequently, I have continued my progress …and most recently completed pset7 “C$50 Finance”…I absolutely love this course…..For one thing I currently trade stocks on-line…..and my experiences with graphic production in 

my time as a television producer made the digital image manipulation assignments of particular interest to me….well suffice it to say …everything seems to be “adding up” quite nicely…..

….back to the issue at hand….

…When the new submission process came back on-line recently, I determined I would submit my previously completed assignments one at a time…..a good chance to review the enormous amount of content and learning that 

I’ve accomplished over the past few months…..

When it came time to submit Recover, I recognized that while my program did recover the 50 jpegs without corruption….there were some apparent issues with memory leakage….which,

at the time I first completed the assignment were obviously beyond my understanding…….

Therefore, I did not submit that version…..I endeavored instead to re-write the program…..and took great attention to detail to get it right……in the process I learned even more about dynamic memory allocation, memory leaks, 

pointers, structs, File functions…..pointers to pointers…..God knows what all……it was a fantastic experience….a great 're-direction' back to C language after spending the past few weeks in the world of Python development 

….and one that I am proud to say I felt I had accomplished quite excellently…..after all, the program returns all 50 JPEG files intact, ends immediately at EOF……Valgrind confirms Zero potential

data leaks….and CS50 “Check50” command renders all green smileys………

https://github.com/submit50/cwsehn/tree/cs50/2017/x/recover

…my score from the new GitHub Bot…….0 of 100…….

I will forward you my short submission to the EdX “support” team along with their response….which resolved nothing…..

…at this point, I score the Bot - Zero of 100……and look forward to getting this issue cleared up …..

I hope you will help ……

Again, I could never thank you enough for the opportunities afforded me by CS50……


Your dedicated student, on-line class-member and enthusiastic CS50 devotee…

-Chris William Sehnert
Mound, Minnesota